1. User Personas and Use Cases (Revised for IP Safety)We must avoid promising specific trademarked behaviors (like "SmartTune") and instead focus on the functional outcome using generic terminology.Use Case A: The "Nervous Novice" (Amateur/DIY)Profile: A hobbyist with a neglected piano. Needs safety rails and visual clarity.The Problem: Professional tools are opaque "black boxes." Simple tuners fail to account for string tension drop.The "Resonance" Solution:Diagnostic Sweep: The user plays a random set of notes. The app utilizes Spectral Entropy Analysis (a public domain academic method) to determine the piano's unique inharmonicity profile without infringing on "Representative Sampling" patents.Tension Safety System: Instead of copying CyberTuner’s expert system, we implement a Tensile Stress Calculator based on standard physics (Hooke’s Law). The user inputs the string's speaking length (measured with a tape measure); the app calculates the % of breaking point and displays a "Safe Zone" indicator."Blind" Rough Pass: A gamified interface that directs the user to over-pull notes to a target calculated by our custom Elasticity Model. The UI uses a simple "Target Zone" bubble rather than a strobe to reduce visual noise.Use Case B: The "Efficient Virtuoso" (Professional RPT)Profile: A technician needing speed and stability.The Problem: Needs custom stretch and speed, but competitors' "measure-as-you-go" features are heavily patented (Verituner).The "Resonance" Solution:Rapid Pre-Measurement: To avoid Verituner’s "continuous consensus" patent (US 6,529,843), our app requires a rapid 30-second chromatic glissando (sweep) before tuning starts. This gathers all data upfront to generate the calculation, avoiding the protected "calculate-while-tuning" workflow.Visualizer Customization: Instead of "Styles" (Verituner trademark), we offer "Interval Weighting Curves." The pro user adjusts a slider for "Twelfths Purity" vs. "Octave Purity," and the app displays the resulting deviation curve in real-time.Haptic Lock: Uses the phone/watch vibration API to confirm pitch lock, allowing "eyes-free" tuning.2. Functional Specifications (The "Safe Harbor" Feature Set)This section replaces potentially infringing features with legally defensible alternatives.2.1. The Acoustic Engine: Spectral Entropy MinimizationLegal Status: Safe. Based on published academic research (Hinrichsen, 2012) and open-source principles, not proprietary trade secrets.Function: Instead of matching specific partials (which Verituner/Reyburn patents cover), the app records the entire piano and calculates a tuning curve that minimizes the "disorder" (entropy) of the combined frequency spectrum.Benefit: It produces a high-level "concert" sounding tuning naturally, handling the "break" between bass/tenor smoothly without requiring complex, patented split-scale logic.2.2. Pitch Correction: The "Tension Gradient" AlgorithmLegal Status: Novel / Proprietary. We do not use Reyburn’s "SmartTune."Function: We develop a new algorithm that treats the soundboard as a flexible membrane.Logic: The app calculates an "Overshoot Percentage" based on the measured change of the previous octave. If tuning A3 raised the local tension by $X$, the app predicts A4 will drop by $Y$ and sets the target accordingly.User Feedback: The app displays a "Settling Prediction" graph, showing the user where the pitch will end up, rather than just telling them where to tune.2.3. Visual Interface: The "Phase-Ring" (Not Strobe)Legal Status: Caution Required. Peterson holds trade dress/patents on the specific look of "Virtual Strobe" wheels.Design: We must avoid the "spinning disk" or "jellyfish" look.Implementation: A "Phase-Ring". A circular glowing ring that expands (sharp) or contracts (flat) based on phase variance. When the note is in tune, the ring turns solid green and pulses gently. This conveys the same high-resolution phase data (0.01 cents) without infringing on the "spinning wheel" visual patent.3. Revised Technical SpecificationsTo build this safely, the technology stack must be robust and distinct from competitors.3.1. Core Audio & Math (C++ / JUCE)Pitch Detection: Use Autocorrelation combined with a Phase-Locked Loop (PLL). This is standard signal processing (textbook physics) and is not patentable.Inharmonicity Solver: Implement a Least-Squares Solver to find the coefficient $B$ for the formula $f_n = n f_1 \sqrt{1 + Bn^2}$. This is a mathematical universal constant for stiff strings and is public domain.Clean Room Protocol: Developers must not look at the source code of "Entropy Piano Tuner" (GPL Licensed) if "Resonance AI" is to be closed-source/commercial. They must implement the algorithms from the academic papers describing the method, not the code itself.3.2. Platform & UI (Flutter)Cross-Platform: Single codebase for iOS/Android to maximize market reach (unlike CyberTuner/Pianoscope which are iOS only).Microphone Handling:Raw Audio Path: Must bypass OS-level "Voice Processing" (AGC/Echo Cancellation) which distorts sine waves.External Mic Support: Include a calibration menu for measurement mics (e.g., iMM-6), applying a frequency response correction curve.3.3. Data & CloudFormat: Proprietary .res (Resonance) JSON format. Do not support importing CyberTuner or Verituner files (risk of circumvention/copyright claims).Cloud: "Resonance Cloud" for syncing user files.
4. Summary of Legal/Technical Adjustments
Feature,"Original ""Ideal"" Spec","Revised ""Safe"" Spec",Reason for Change
Pitch Raise,"""Calculated Overshoot"" (CyberTuner logic)","""Tension Gradient Model""","Avoids Reyburn's ""SmartTune"" patents/methods."
Tuning Logic,"""Multi-Partial Consensus"" (Verituner)","""Spectral Entropy Minimization""",Verituner's method is patented; Entropy is academic/public domain.
Visuals,"""Strobe Display""","""Phase-Ring"" / ""Pulse""",Avoids Peterson's trade dress/design patents on spinning disks.
Workflow,"""Measure-as-you-go""","""Rapid Pre-Sweep""",Continuous calculation during tuning is a Verituner patent claim.
Terminology,"""Smart Pitch"", ""Styles""","""Elasticity Comp."", ""Weighting""",Avoids trademark infringement.